# MigrationQueries

The `migration_queries` gem improves tracking of migration queries in Ruby on Rails applications. It provides a simple way to log and analyze the SQL queries generated by ActiveRecord migrations, helping developers optimize their database interactions.

## Installation

Add this gem to development dependencies in your `Gemfile`:

```ruby
group :development do
  gem 'migration_queries'
end
```

Then, run `bundle install` to install the gem.

## Usage

The gem is going to automatically track migration queries executed by ActiveRecord. You can view the logged queries in your Rails console or in the log files.

Example migration file after running migration and logging queries:

```ruby
class AddExampleTable < ActiveRecord::Migration[6.0]
  def change
    create_table :example do |t|
      t.string :name
      t.timestamps
    end
  end
end
=begin Migration Queries
CREATE TABLE "example" ("id" bigserial primary key, "name" character varying, "created_at" timestamp(6) NOT NULL, "updated_at" timestamp(6) NOT NULL)

# Migration Queries written on 2025-07-04 12:36:54 +0200
=end
```

## Development

After checking out the repo, run `bin/setup` to install dependencies. Then, run `rake spec` to run the tests. You can also run `bin/console` for an interactive prompt that will allow you to experiment.

To install this gem onto your local machine, run `bundle exec rake install`. To release a new version, update the version number in `version.rb`, and then run `bundle exec rake release`, which will create a git tag for the version, push git commits and the created tag, and push the `.gem` file to [rubygems.org](https://rubygems.org).

## Contributing

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on GitHub at https://github.com/szymonlipka/migration_queries. This project is intended to be a safe, welcoming space for collaboration, and contributors are expected to adhere to the [code of conduct](https://github.com/[USERNAME]/migration_queries/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

## License

The gem is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).

## Code of Conduct

Everyone interacting in the MigrationQueries project's codebases, issue trackers, chat rooms and mailing lists is expected to follow the [code of conduct](https://github.com/[USERNAME]/migration_queries/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).
